Fixed MUL Scenario Test
Please let me know if you have questions or there are any issues or bugs.  @Thom293 on discord.

This is a test of the new fixed mul feature added by NickAragua.  
If this works out, bascially we can share fixed-force scenarios in the future.

This is for the test scenario "The Blackcoats" scenarios.  There are 3.  It will load a fixed force for you to fight from one of my MHQ Campaign Merc Units.  They can also appear randomly as part of your campaign.  They are UNIQUE battles, so it is recommended you only play them once per campaign.  Then if they roll again, delete them after that. 

Forces & Recomendations:

The Opfor is elements of a Veteran 3066 Mech Company.

If you bring an equal size force, they are intended to be difficult.  

Some pilots have Callsigns, Edge and SPAs, etc.  One has a custom mech.  They should all load with Portraits.  For this particular test, the vehicle company is coming in a few rounds late.  This is intentional.  Please leave it that way.  If any of that stuff doesnt happen, please let me know on discord, as there is something wrong.  But I have tested it multiple times, and it should work.

1.  It is recommended that you bring a force of the exact same size and near equal BV to fight it.  But you can take as large a force as you want.
2.  It is recommended that you go to AtB campaign options and set "SPA Intensity" to 0, or they will get more SPA.
3.  If you are using double blind, you should type /who for the opfor numbers and then /singleblind # for each of them (have to do all 3) so Princess can see the map, or she will not search for you.
4.  It is recommended you consider whether you want to play with ASF.  I enjoy them but some do not.  Because 4 ASF on either side hurt a whole lot and can mess a lot of things up.  Badly.  If you dont want to use them, dont bring ASF of your own, and load scenario as below, and just remove the OpFor ASF wing from the MM lobby. 
5.  Some fights will be a BIG BATTLE with a BIG MAP.  If you dont want a large map, or to use all of the forces, change the map size in the MM lobby, and/or delete some of the forces.

To use, Part I:

As of 8/8/22 you need a Nightly Build of MHQ to use this. https://github.com/MegaMek/mekhq/actions - select the latest "MekHQ Nightly CI" and download the correct version for your OS.

These are Veteran units you will be fighting.  You need a decent force to fight it.  Two Options:

1.  Use one of your existing MHQ Campaigns with a mature force, OR
2.  If you do not have one, jump to the "Setting Up a Quick Campaign" instructions at the bottom of this Readme.

To use, Part II:

1.  Run a virus scan on the zip and make a backup of your MHQ.  Its fine. But it will make me feel better.
2.  Drag the "data" folder from the .zip into your main MHQ folder.  It will copy the scenario file, the custom mech, the custom portraits, and the .mul files for the force, and put them all in the proper places.  It will ask you to overwrite a single file (scenario manifest).  Say yes if you want them to show up as random battles in your campaign.
3.  Launch one of your Existing MHQ Campaigns.  If you do not have one, Jump to the "Setting up a Quick Campaign" section below.
4.  Go to Briefing Tab and select "Add Scenario."
5.  In the pop up, select the "Generate from Template" button on bottom left.
6.  In the file pop up, scroll down and select a "The Blackcoats" scenario.
7.  You should now have a new battle with that name on the briefing tab.  Right click on it and hit Edit.
8.  In the pop up, select the "Generate Bot Forces" button on bottom left.
9.  The battle should now be populated with 3 custom forces.  Go to the TO&E tab, right click on your force, and Deploy it to the Scenario.  In the pop up, click Campaign Name, then Player, then Assign.  Then go back to briefing tab and Start Game.
10. Please let me know if you have questions or there are any issues or bugs.  @Thom293 on discord.

Setting up a Quick Campaign:

If you do not have a mature force, follow these intructions to create one worthy of battle:

1.  Launch "New Campaign" from MHQ Splash Screen.
2.  Select the top preset "AtB Official Options"
3.  Select January 1, 3067 as start date (This Bluecoats force is from 3066).
4.  On the "General" tab, set the date again to January 1, 3067.  Name the Campaign and choose a camo if you want.
5.  On the "Against the Bot" tab, scroll down to the very bottom and select "Use StratCon campaign Rules"
6.  Hit "Confirm" on the bottom left of the pop up.
7.  In the Main MHQ screen, go to the "Manage Campaign" Menu dropdown on top left of screen and select "Company Generator."
8.  There is a screenshot in the zip file for this step.  In the pop up, keep defaults, but check "Generate Company Command Lance" and change "Company Count" to 2.  This will give you a slightly stronger force.
9.  Hit the Generate button on the bottom left.  Ignore the Nag pop up, or change your support personnel if you wish.
10.  You now have a force.  If you want, you can buy 4 Aerospace fighters with Pilots and add them to your T0&E.  I suggest 4 Slayers.  But this is not necessary as its only a test for fun.  Go to the Briefing Room Tab, and click "Add Mission" and select "New Contract" in the pop up.
11.  There is a screenshot in the zip file for this step.  In the next pop up, change the name to "Test Contract."  Check "Show all Planets."  Change Employer to Independent, Enemy to Free Worlds League, and in the Location box type "Galatea" (or whatever planet you are currently on). On the right change Command Rights to Independent.
12.  There is a screenshot in the zip file for this step.  On the next screen your contract should be shown with a start date.  Hit "Advance Day" until you reach the start date of the contract.
13.  There is a screenshot in the zip file for this step.  Once you are on the correct day, your units should show up in the bottom right of the briefing tab.
14.  Now, go to the "To Use, Part II" section above, and continue from there.

