Custom SPAs

MekHQ supports unofficial extensions to the SPA (special pilot abilities) system used in MegaMek.
This allows support personnel to spend XP to gain special abilities used in their duties (though in
this context SPA should probably mean "special personnel abilities) as well allowing them to set
triggers to spend edge points to reroll critical failed skill checks in critical situations. At the
time of writing, the only custom SPA is Clan tech knowledge, which allows Inner Sphere techs to work
on Clan equipment without penalty. There are also edge triggers for part breaking parts during repair
for techs, failed healing checks for doctors, and failed acquisition rolls for administrators (or whichever
role acquires parts in the campaign).

There is also a means for players to add their own custom SPAs, edge triggers, and implants. At the time
of writing there are no actual in-game effects of custom SPAs, and they are provided for book-keeping
purposes. MekHQ can manage the bookkeeping of spending XP and tracking which personnel have acquired
the special ability, but it is up the player to manage the effects. There are plans to add plugin module
support to MekHQ at some point in the future, and plugins can be designed to apply the effects of the SPA.
Note that without a plugin system edge triggers have no practical purpose and were included with the
eventual availability of plugins in mind.

To add an SPA, edge trigger, or implant, an entry must be made in the data/universe/customspa.xml file.
The distributed file has a comment section showing one example of each type. The minimum required for the
entry to work is a unique value for the name attribute. Xml entities are provided for all legal values
of the group and type nodes. The group should be set to &L3; for spas, &EDGE; for edge triggers, or
&AUGMENTATION; for implants. If the group is not set it defaults to &L3;. In most cases the type should be
set to &BOOLEAN:, which is the default and indicates an spa that is either set or not. The second most common
is &CHOICE;, which is for an SPA that can be set to one of a list of available values. The actual values will
be provided in the next step.

Adding to customspa.xml will add the option to the hard-coded options, but just as with the hard-coded options
it still needs an entry in defaultspa.xml to provide XP costs, display name, and description used
by MekHQ. This is done as for any other SPA, or HQ-specific edge triggers and implants. The one addition
is that custom SPAs of type CHOICE should list all the possible settings in a <choiceValues> node using
two colons as a separator between values. The defaultspa.xml has a comment section showing the entries
corresponding to the examples in customspa.xml at the end.
